

Team,

We currently have a bit of crisis situation for dev progress in blockchain projects, due to things going in the following unplanned ways.

* Dev resource onboarding delays
* Changes in KMS team's support in Signer project
* Last minute changes in the tech approach for ILOC and Signer (due to the above)
* new tech satck/approach to be tried out (local ethereum nodes, pkcs11 etc)
* Sibos and unbelievably aggressive deadlines (2-3 weeks for ILOC and Signer)

In the view of the above, I recommend the following focus areas for the tech team, to get some progress. This is for today and the next two weeks only (Fire-fighting mode). We will continuously review and re-align.

Venkat
* get ILOC new approach working in local environment (local ethereum nodes).
* Implement ILOC business flows (service impl), as many as possible.

Amber, Rob and Niall (based on availability today and next week)
* Refactor Alex's sample code into library functions and identify any additional functions we need to build, to support the flows.
* Create json data object structures (for LC application etc) in Java (Consult Paul)
* Extend/Populate fields for JWS/JWE/AMQP messages in Alex's sample code

Alex & Sudha
* Tech approach for Signer testing (pkcs11, client-certs)
* Signer code installation and testing

Questions? Suggestions?

-----------


DLT tasks
  smart contract
  pantheon connector

Integrations
  mongo connector
  mq connector

Other
  data models
  data validators
  nimbus handler
  logging handler

other components
  main service
  test scripts

----------
I think the flow diagram on the top of the document doesn't really belong here, as no references to the diagram are made in the text below it.  ***nexus***

Also if this diagram need to be cosnidered as a dev requirement, the diagram should relate itself to the sequence diagram as most of its content seem to overlap. We also need to have a Q&A session with dev team, similar to technical design sessions we had, to digest this.

Also, I really think the wording need to be changed with regards to merkle hash and publishing of LC application.

Preferably, we should mention that the hash (fingerprint) of the LC application is what is being recorded in the DLT. We can show logs only to that effect.

Also I think we should mention that, by "Representation of LC Application", we mean an hash of the LC application content. Because a representation could mean some form of the content, while hash is not a form of the content.
------------

ILOC Projects: Paln-A, Plan-B and Plan-C

There was a bit of confusion regarding what these plans are. So thought of providing some clarity as far as I knew. Please correct it if needed.

Plan-A: This is the original technical design that incuded Nexus and Signer, and separate sequence diagrams for each ILOC business flow or usecase. The preliminary dev estimates were given for this context. This is not currently taken up for development.

Plan-B: This is the modified technical design that excludes Nexus and Signer. The original sequence diagrams are replaced by the  DRAM seqeunce diagram. The vendor development team (Infosys team) has been engaged to develop this, using a modular implementation approach. The project is using agile methodology for dev sprints.

Plan-C: This is the existing DRAM project code which Alex has written for his E4 project. The goal here is to reafactor this code into multiple reusable methods and make it run as an API service. The existing DRAM code is supposed to meet almost all (99%) of the requirements and technical design for ILOC project (see Plan-B). Infosys team is not engaged in this. Dublin team is working on this.

-----------

ILOC Team,

Just wanted to reiterate that any documents that need to be used as an input (requirements, design etc) need to be explicitely identified as such by the document authors and shared with the development team. Currently the following documents are shared and being used for the POC development:

1. Sequence diagrams
2. ICD document

In addition to the above, we are going to share Acceptance Critera document next week (see below).

All documents to be used as inputs by development team are shared via the bitbucket repo (iloc-documentation/dev-documents)

I request project team members to complete the documentation delivery to dev team latest by end of next week, including any Q&A sessions as needed.

Thanks,
Venkat 
-----------

Remove slash. Roles are not same.

Nexus, dram adn signer are all generic serivces. Generic services mean they don't look into the content they are handling and don't have content-specific logic.

Nexus offers mainly 3 operations for transctions - build, sign, submit.

Dram offers mainly 3 operations for messages - register, send, receive

None of these services and their operations are content-aware. That means they do not look into data they handle.

The implementation of these products commits to requirements are platform level or service level, which are not content-specific.

However, the acceptance criteria is content-specific. It refers to functionality related to message types. Dram requirements are not specific to message types. For example, issuance messages are treated differently from drawdown messages.

....

The developemnt team is currently building code to meet the requirements that are available in ICD and sequence diagrams.

If you think these requirements are the same as those requirements, then we don't need to send these requirements to dev.

It was aggreed that the requirements and design of the platform guarantees that these business requirements can be met by using platform alone without additional custom logic. The development team guarantees that the code implements the platform according to platform's generic requirements.

Guaranteeing that platform meets business requriements, is in the commitment from the roles that define the technical requirements and design for the platform, but not from the roles that implement the platform.

----------------

Just wondering what this formal sign-off means for me, on these multiple documents for a POC project.

Probably this is to agree that there are no issues with these requirements from an implementation perspective.

It largely depdends on whether this requirement is consistent with other requirements. All requirements are implementable as long as they are in sync or consistent with each other. These issues will be reported by dev when the work is in progress on the requirements in question.

---------

Which one of the following is what you are asking me to agree on, through this sign-off?
* That I will work on these requirements
* That these requirements are implementable by using the given technical approach.

Sorry, being pedantic is not my preference, but forced by insistence on a formal sign-off.

> This should be directed to someone who makes project allocations for me. I work on my assigned projects.
> This should be directed to tech approach. Dev won't make assertions on this.
> When the work starts oon this requirement, the developer might need a few clarifications from the author of the requirement. These questions are meant to understand the requirement better. But corrections to the requirement should not depend on or wait on these questions. None of this should warrant a sign-off from dev.

----------------

Alex - I'm happy to do any task as long as it is explicit enough. I was requesting you to kindly discuss with John regarding selection of processes that are required for Plan-B build pipelines, deployment, sonar, production support etc, as mentioned in the slides sent by you. You both can ofcourse consider all the items in entirity, as well. I have no objection to any of this and it is not my job make a decision in this regard.

Once such selection is made, I can help john in setting up these processes and ensure we have adherences to such processes. We can't adhere to a process that is non-existent in the project (for example, continuous build and deployment to ECS).

I was always in favor of setting up the best processes for development. For example, I'm the one who has shifted to docker container-based deployments for all the services required for Plan-C and Plan-B. 

In the past, I was granted rewards from CTO/CEO's of the companies I worked for, for establishing the open-source based modern dev processes such as Behaviour-Driven test methodologies.

As an Apache opensource committer, I always strived for the best technologies and processes.   

Hope you understand.

Donal - I have nothing more to say in any further discussion regarding this topic. Kindly excuse me.


Venkat

-------------------

